### Goals
1. Couple a vortex with as Skyrmion
2. Get triplet cooper pair superconductivity
3. Any topological superconductivity - the topology of the material is intrinsically responsible for the superconductivity

### Current stage
1. Have made stacks of superconductors with chiral ferromagnet (a ferromagnet that can host Skyrmions)
2. Will continue to make superconductor chiral ferromagnet superconductor junctions
3. Now trying to measure with an MFM (magnetic force microscopy) -- AFM but a tip covered in magnetic material so it can sense magnetic repulsion.
4. Trying to image vortices and Skyrmions. Would also like to make some transport measurements i.e. Hall/Resistance measurements, Josephson Junction measurements.

### Need
1. How the coupling between vortex and Skyrmions works.
2. How such a Josephson junction would behave.

Experimental vs. Theoretical tasks
For now - modeling tasks while getting trained on machines.
### Modelling
1. Have an existing suites of micro-magnetic simulations, used to simulate magnetic film so you can see Skyrmions and how the domains are created, etc. Written in Mumax, connect via Anydesk to computing center upstairs.
2. Don't have a way to simulate vortices, so we'd like to develop a way to model a layer with a Skyrmion and then a layer above in a superconductor how the stray field of the skyrmion creates a vortex. 
3. Also want to model the Josephson junction -- might need to use Python/Matlab.
4. Earlier - student investigated how will the vortices couple magnetostatically. 
5. For JJ -- check Kimbell thesis to see non-equilibrium Green's function to simulate JJ, simulates how an electron is scattered through something.

### Further reading
Petrovich et. al, try to reproduce what they do, they can simulate vortices in the presence of a Skyrmion, they also use micromag. Make a PPT slide with understanding of concepts. 

### Summary
- Learned how to cut samples with HK
- Read up on background material
- Read some slides / watched VOD of Gunasheel on mumax.
- Anydesk set-up
- Need to find a time with HK to learn cryo-probe station