### Goals
- [ ] Ic dependence on temperature/field
- [ ] Test light effect
- [ ] Read more papers

### Summary
Testing new samples 3189 ABC. A (6nm) does not superconduct at base 8.6K. C does, has critical temperature of around 9.8K. Pretty high, considering 9.5 K on this machine is roughly 13K on PPMS.

Discussion with Anjan:

1. Summary 
	- Cryo experiments range from temperature sweeps, field sweeps, critical current as a function of temperature and sweep, Lock-in functionality, user interface is clean and easy to learn.
	- Simulations are fully functional, especially in the 2D limit. Can readily simulate the stray-field impact on skyrmions in a thin-film. 
2. Future works 
	- Lock-in setup, NCMR. Documentation for pymeasure. Fix temperature discrepancy.
	- Simulations can test a lot of Petrovic hypotheses, since they use a lot of indirect measurements to justify SVP. Things like magnetization of SC was crucial. Maybe test to see if the integrated magnetization of the SC actually goes down when antivortices pop down (it should!). Other things like the affect of SVPs on critical current can be shown in PYtdgl. Field cooling may be implemented. 
3. Continuation plans
	 - Will likely move on to other research fields, unlikely to come back to Singapore since this trip was heavily funded by MIT. Would consider coming back and working on other topics since goal right now is to broaden horizons.
 4. Questions
	  - Report needed? How to contribute to a sup-spin paper if possible?
	  - Kai-yang mentorship during the school year, will I be required?
	  - Classes vs. UROP on finding what interests me and what problems in the world there are?
	

